blog: Article for promote BSP Generator (#743)
espressif/developer-portal: content/blog/2026/06/bsp-generator-promo/index.md

---
title: From Espressif Dev Kit to Your Custom Board - in an Afternoon
date: 2026-06-11
summary: Start from an esp-bsp dev kit, customize pins and features in a web form, and download a production-style BSP component for your custom PCB - same APIs, less manual work.

> featureAsset: "img/featured.webp"

Reviewer: You can remove this since the featured image is on the same level as `index.md`.

Author: When I removed it, the CI failed.

Reviewer 2: @espzav  The CI only [reports](https://github.com/espressif/developer-portal/actions/runs/27413459560/job/81020181061?pr=743):

Article: content/blog/2026/06/bsp-generator-promo/index.md
❌ Publishing date in the article's YAML header is in the past: 2026-06-11.
   Once the article is approved, update the date to a present or future day and make sure it matches the article's 'content/blog/YYYY/MM/' folder.

You can update the date later.

I tried removing the `featureAsset` line, the website builds just fine.

Do you have any other issues?

Author: Removed, I hope that CI will pass :-)

tags:
  - ESP-BSP
authors:
  - "vilem-zavodny"
---

> The [ESP-BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools) bridges that gap: start from a proven [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp) board, select pins and features in a visual form, and download a production-style BSP component for *your* hardware while keeping the same APIs your code already uses.

Reviewer: My suggestion for this beginning is to use a storytelling approach. Here, we need to catch the reader's attention to motivate them to read the full article, and after that, convince them to use the proposed solution.

Something like:

```
When you start a new project from scratch, you need to bring the board up. This process includes setting up all peripherals, checking all pinouts, adding sensors, including packages, components and all board related stuff.
Not only a time consuming, but this process also requires knowledge on the hardware used and could fail easily if done incorrectly. Imagine now that you need to do the same thing over and over if you use the same hardware for different products.

To solve this issue, an approach know as Board Support Package (BSP) adds versatility to your project by adding a layer of abstraction with the hardware. The BSP will contain all hardware support for a specific board, including the drivers, peripheral initialization, deinitialization, board configuration, target setting and all APIs needed to use all the board features.

You can read more about the BSP on the Using ESP-BSP with DevKits article.
https://developer.espressif.com/blog/using-esp-bsp-with-devkits/

Here we try to convince the reader to try the solution.

While Espressif supports most of the development kits with BSPs, they are limited to boards that are officially supported by Espressif. However, at some point, you will realize that you need to create your own BSP for a custom board you’re developing or you need to support a third-party boards not supported by Espressif.

To help you creating a new BSP and fill this gap, we developed a new tool called ESP-BSP Generator.

## BSP Generator

The [ESP-BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools) bridges that gap...
```

## The problem every custom board hits

You or your software team creates a prototype on **ESP32-S3-BOX-3**, **ESP32-C3-LCDKit**, **M5Stack Tab5**, or another board from [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp). Display, touch, audio, SD card work perfectly because Espressif maintains the BSP.

> Then the hardware team designs a custom board with a different touch controller, pin mapping, and without a speaker. Now you have to partially start from scratch.

Reviewer: It will be nice to add some motivation for creating a new BSP.

BSP could help in 2 ways:
- Different projects using the same hardware.
  - No need to manually add the HAL every time.
- Different hardware using the same software.
  - Easy to change the hardware/board.

Another thing worth mentioning is the API consistency. Different BSPs with the same APIs, making the change or migration easy. If I understood correctly, on the BSP Generator, if you use the button, for example, all the initialization and usage will be the same no matter the BSP you create.

Author: Yes, you are right. But I don't know if and where is the best part of this article to add more info about BSP or to make new article mainly about BSP?
We want to make more articles and promotion of BSP and our tools. We have new API for sensors (Temperature, humidity, IMU, ...). We want to add more sensors like lightsensor, battery monitor, RTC and others. We are planning more new features too. We are using new video component for camera. There is lot of new features but I am aware that article about it will be look like API guide :-D

Reviewer 2: @espzav  The new articles about new features and APIs do not need to look like API guides.

You can write some tutorials that implement something useful and refer to your API docs from them. In this way, you will advertise new features with their APIs and will provide good examples on how to use them.

**There is a better workflow.**

## Start with what already works

{{< figure
    src="img/02-load-configuration-modal.webp"
    alt="Load configuration — pick a starter board (ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-C3-LCDKit, …)"
    caption="Load configuration — pick a starter board (ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-C3-LCDKit, …)"
    >}}

1. Open the **[ESP-BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools)**.
2. Click **Load configuration** and pick a starter board that matches your prototype (e.g. ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-S3-EYE, ESP32-C3-LCDKit).
3. The form fills in MCU, features, drivers, and pin assignments - the same structure as the official BSP in [esp-bsp/bsp/](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp/tree/master/bsp).

## Configure features for *your* PCB

{{< figure
    src="img/03-starter-board-loaded.webp"
    alt="Starter board loaded — ESP-BOX-3 configuration ready to customize"
    caption="Starter board loaded — ESP-BOX-3 configuration ready to customize"

>     >}}

Reviewer 2: The form in the screenshot actually includes two different parts:

- Project metadata / documentation
- Feature configuration

Ideas:

- I recommend that you split this section and the screenshot into two respectively.
- At least for me, it is not clear if I need to update the README, links, photos, etc., or provide new ones. Are changes required? How will this information will be used? How is it useful for me as a user?

Each capability is a **feature tab**: Display, Touch, Buttons, Audio, SD card, Camera, sensors, USB, battery, and more. Enable what your schematic actually has; disable what you removed.

Typical custom-board edits:

| On the dev kit | On your custom board |
|----------------|----------------------|
| 3 navigation buttons | 2 buttons, different GPIOs |
| FT5x06 touch on I2C | Same controller, different I2C pins |
| RGB LCD + backlight PWM | SPI display, fixed backlight |
| On-board microphone | No audio - tab stays off |

The generator checks dependencies (touch over I2C needs I2C enabled, and so on) before it builds anything.

{{< figure
    src="img/04-display-feature-tab.webp"
    alt="Display feature tab — resolution, driver, pins, and LVGL options"
    caption="Display feature tab — resolution, driver, pins, and LVGL options"
    >}}

> Hover the **?** icons for hints. Upload a board photo for the generated README. Save the JSON - that file is your **single source of truth** for the board definition.

Reviewer 2: > Hover the **?** icons for hints.

Do you think it might be possible to generate a BSP using a touch screen device? I suggest adding this:

Hover over or tap the ? icons for hints.

> Hover the **?** icons for hints. Upload a board photo for the generated README. Save the JSON - that file is your **single source of truth** for the board definition.

Reviewer 2: > Save the JSON - that file is your **single source of truth** for the board definition.

I believe this deserves more attention. At this point, it is not clear why this file is needed and what to do with it. Do I understand it correctly that the JSON file stores the project metadata and all feature configurations?

Part of this information is provided in the section **ESP-IDF upgraded? Regenerate, don’t rewrite**, but not enough:

> …load the JSON in the generator, adjust what changed, and Generate BSP again.

It is not clear what loads the JSON file or how to load it.

I suggest that you create a separate section about the JSON file, what it is and how to use it. In **ESP-IDF upgraded?  ...**, you can only cover the regeneration part.

{{< figure
    src="img/05-generation-success.webp"
    alt="Generation success — next steps, file list, and Download ZIP"
    caption="Generation success — next steps, file list, and Download ZIP"
    >}}

The success page walks through integration steps; the in-app **Help** modal covers load/save, features, and SquareLine OBP install paths.

## Why esp-bsp + the generator together

| | [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp) | [BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools) |
|---|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| **Best for** | Official Espressif & partner boards | Your custom PCB |
| **Maintained by** | Espressif BSP team | Generated from shared templates |
| **API style** | `bsp_*`, LVGL port, examples | Same patterns |
| **Registry** | Components on [components.espressif.com](https://components.espressif.com) | Your `idf_component.yml` + path or publish later |

Use **esp-bsp** as reference and dependency where it fits. Use the **generator** when the schematic is yours.

> ## SquareLine Studio? Covered.

Reviewer 2: For those who might not be familiar with this tool, I suggest that you provide a one-two sentence description of what it is and give a web link.

If your flow includes UI design, enable **Generate SquareLine Studio pack** (Display required). The ZIP includes an [Open Board Platform](https://docs.squareline.io/docs/obp/) bundle (`.slb`, `.zip`, `.png`) ready to copy into `~/SquareLine/boards/` - designers stay in SquareLine; firmware stays on the same BSP pins and resolution you defined in the form.

## Try it in five minutes

1. Go to **[bsp-generator.espressif.tools](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools)**
2. **Load** `ESP-BOX-3` or any starter board close to your hardware
3. Change one GPIO, rename the BSP, click **Generate**
4. Drop the component into a blank ESP-IDF project and `idf.py build`

> Explore official boards and docs in **[github.com/espressif/esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp)** - then make the generator your shortcut from dev kit to custom product.

Reviewer 2: >  then make the generator your shortcut from dev kit to custom product.

Please clarify this part. The ideas are a bit crammed here.

---
title: From Espressif Dev Kit to Your Custom Board - in an Afternoon
date: 2026-06-11
summary: Start from an esp-bsp dev kit, customize pins and features in a web form, and download a production-style BSP component for your custom PCB - same APIs, less manual work.
featureAsset: "img/featured.webp"
tags:
  - ESP-BSP
authors:
  - "vilem-zavodny"
---

> # From Espressif Dev Kit to Your Custom Board - in an Afternoon

Reviewer 2: The value of `title` is rendered as the first level heading already. No need to repeat the title here:

```suggestion
```

**You already have working firmware on an Espressif BSP. Your next product uses a custom PCB.

> You should not have to rewrite half your application to get there.**

Reviewer 2: This important insight about the article value should go to the article summary. No need for a second summary.

> The [ESP-BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools) bridges that gap: start from a proven [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp) board, tune pins and features in a visual form, and download a production-style BSP component for *your* hardware - the same APIs your code already uses.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The [ESP-BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools) bridges that gap: start from a proven [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp) board, select pins and features in a visual form, and download a production-style BSP component for *your* hardware while keeping the same APIs your code already uses.
```

> ---

Reviewer 2: These lines separating sections strongly remind of ChatGPT responses. I highly recommend that you remove them from your article to avoid unnecessary frowns.

## The problem every custom board hits

Teams prototype on **ESP32-S3-BOX-3**, **ESP32-C3-LCDKit**, **M5Stack Tab5**, or another board from [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp). Display, touch, audio, SD card - it all works because Espressif maintains the BSP.

> Then the mechanical team ships a custom layout: different GPIOs, one less button, a new touch controller, no speaker. Suddenly you are diffing `bsp_*.c` by hand, copying Kconfig fragments, and hoping you did not miss a pin conflict.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You or your software team creates a prototype on **ESP32-S3-BOX-3**, **ESP32-C3-LCDKit**, **M5Stack Tab5**, or another board from [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp). Display, touch, audio, SD card work perfectly because Espressif maintains the BSP.

Then the hardware team designs a custom board with a different touch controller, pin mapping, and without a speaker. Now you have to partially start from scratch.
```
I would try to simplify it a bit. I think that `hoping you did not miss a pin conflict` does not really make sense here.
Also it is a bit confusing how it starts with `Teams` and then in the second paragraph there is a separate mechanical team which was not part of the previous group of teams.

**There is a better workflow.**

---

## Start with what already works

![Load configuration — pick a starter board (ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-C3-LCDKit, …)](img/02-load-configuration-modal.webp)

1. Open the **[ESP-BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools)**.
2. Click **Load configuration** and pick a starter board that matches your prototype (e.g. ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-S3-EYE, ESP32-C3-LCDKit).
3. The form fills in MCU, features, drivers, and pin assignments - the same structure as the official BSP in [esp-bsp/bsp/](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp/tree/master/bsp).

> You are not inventing a BSP from scratch. You are **forking a known-good baseline**.

Reviewer 3: To me this is AI being AI. The paragraph already says exactly what to do and what it achieves. I think that this is unnecessary and I would remove this

---

> ## Tune features for *your* PCB

Reviewer 3: I don't think `Tune` is the right word here because it means small incremental adjustments. I would use `configure` or `select`.

> ![Starter board loaded — ESP-BOX-3 configuration ready to customize](img/03-starter-board-loaded.webp)

Reviewer 2: **About this one and all other screenshots in the article**.

Consider using a [dedicated syntax](https://developer.espressif.com/pages/contribution-guide/writing-content/#adding-images) for including images.

Please remember that articles can be read not only by humans, but also by AI these days.

If big chunks of information are only available in a screenshot, the possible scenarios are:

- The agent needs to process the image which takes many more tokens
- The agent might not be able to analyze images at all

Another question: is the information in the screenshot really important in the article context (like, let's say, you want to discuss certain things that are not clear from the web interface)? If yes, write this information out in text. If no, reduce or remove the screenshot.

Also, why make screenshots of large areas of web pages if they can be easily viewed by clicking a link?

Each capability is a **feature tab**: Display, Touch, Buttons, Audio, SD card, Camera, sensors, USB, battery, and more. Enable what your schematic actually has; disable what you removed.

Typical custom-board edits:

| On the dev kit | On your custom board |
|----------------|----------------------|
| 3 navigation buttons | 2 buttons, different GPIOs |
| FT5x06 touch on I2C | Same controller, different I2C pins |
| RGB LCD + backlight PWM | SPI display, fixed backlight |
| On-board microphone | No audio - tab stays off |

The generator checks dependencies (touch over I2C needs I2C enabled, and so on) before it builds anything.

![Display feature tab — resolution, driver, pins, and LVGL options](img/04-display-feature-tab.webp)

Hover the **?** icons for hints. Upload a board photo for the generated README. Save the JSON - that file is your **single source of truth** for the board definition.

---

## Generate once, integrate like any esp-bsp component

Click **Generate BSP**. You get a ZIP with:

- A full **ESP-IDF component** (`CMakeLists.txt`, `Kconfig`, headers, sources)

> - **`sdkconfig.defaults`** tuned to your choices

Reviewer 3: I would say `tuned` makes a bit more sense here but I also don't think it is 100% correct

- **`README.md`** with capabilities and dependency table
- **`API.md`** API reference (Doxygen-style, same idea as official BSPs)
- Optional **noglib** variant (BSP without LVGL)
- Optional **SquareLine Studio** OBP pack for UI designers

Your application keeps calling the same BSP entry points:

```c
#include "bsp/esp-bsp.h"

void app_main(void)
{
    bsp_display_start();
    bsp_display_backlight_on();
    // ... your UI / logic unchanged in spirit
}
```

Wire the new component in `main/idf_component.yml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  my_custom_board:
    path: ../components/my_custom_board
```

Copy `sdkconfig.defaults` to the project root, set the target, build. **The application structure stays familiar** - only the board layer changed.

---

## Swap the component, keep the software

This is the payoff for product teams:

```
Prototype firmware  →  uses esp-box-3 BSP from esp-bsp
Production firmware →  uses my_custom_board BSP from the generator
Application code    →  largely the same #include and BSP APIs
```

> You are not maintaining a fork of esp-bsp forever. You maintain a **small, generated board package** that follows the same conventions as [espressif/esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp): component layout, `bsp_*` helpers, LVGL integration via [esp_lvgl_port](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp/tree/master/components/esp_lvgl_port), examples you can compare under [esp-bsp/examples/](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp/tree/master/examples).

Reviewer 3: To me this whole paragraph does not make sense because this customer that uses BSP selector will not maintain the `small, generated board package`. He only has to save the json somewhere and the BSP team is maintaining the generated board package.
I think that this whole paragraph can be shortened and merged with `Your application keeps calling the same BSP entry points:`

Author: I think, we can keep this paragraph.

---

## ESP-IDF upgraded? Regenerate, don’t rewrite

Saved configuration JSON is more than a backup. When:

- **ESP-IDF** moves to a new major version,
- **esp-bsp** templates or drivers change,
- you add a feature you skipped in v1 (e.g. SD card on the next PCB spin),

…load the JSON in the generator, adjust what changed, and **Generate BSP** again.

You refresh pins, Kconfig, and generated sources from the template — instead of merging hundreds of manual edits across C files.

![Generation success — next steps, file list, and Download ZIP](img/05-generation-success.webp)

The success page walks through integration steps; the in-app **Help** modal covers load/save, features, and SquareLine OBP install paths.

---

## Why esp-bsp + the generator together

| | [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp) | [BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools) |
|---|------------------------------------------------|------------------------------------------------------|
| **Best for** | Official Espressif & partner boards | Your custom PCB |

> | **Maintained by** | Espressif BSP team | Generated from shared templates |

Reviewer 3: Here I would say it is also a bit misleading. I would say that even the generated component has to be maintained by the BSP team because once you start editing the generated package you can't really do what you advertise in `ESP-IDF upgraded? Regenerate, don’t rewrite`

Author: I am not sure, if I understand right, but generated custom board cannot be maintained by BSP team.

Reviewer 3: No I mean that the customer also should not maintain it. Ideally they should not touch the generated package because of they do then it can't be re-generated in the future because it would be missing those changes that they did.

---

> title: From Espressif Dev Kit to Your Custom Board - in an Afternoon

Reviewer 2: What I would change:

- `Espressif Dev Kit` reads like the name of a product when capitalized, I highly recommend that you use sentence case in heading titles.
- I highly recommend that you add the name of your product in the title to advertize it better.

```suggestion
title: ESP-BSP Generator: From Espressif dev kit to your custom board in an afternoon
```

> date: 2026-06-30
> summary: Start from an esp-bsp dev kit, customize pins and features in a web form, and download a production-style BSP component for your custom PCB - same APIs, less manual work.
> tags:
>   - ESP-BSP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
tags:
  - DevKit
  - BSP
  - ESP-BSP
```

authors:
  - "vilem-zavodny"
---

## Introduction

When you start a project without a Board Support Package (BSP), a large part of the first milestone is board initialization. Before the application can do anything useful, you need to select the target, configure peripherals, assign GPIOs, initialize the display, touch controller, buttons, audio, sensors, storage, power management, and any other hardware feature on the board.

That setup takes time, requires detailed knowledge of the schematic, and can be fragile. A wrong pin, missing dependency, or slightly different peripheral configuration can break the bring-up flow. If the same hardware is reused across products, or if a prototype later becomes a custom PCB, the same board-specific work has to be repeated and maintained again.

> ### The BSP

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enter the BSP
```

A BSP packages this hardware knowledge into a reusable component. It contains the drivers, peripheral initialization and deinitialization, board configuration, target settings, and APIs needed to use the board features. Instead of repeating the same setup in every application, your projects call a common board layer.

We introduced this idea in [Using ESP-BSP with DevKits](../../../using-esp-bsp-with-devkits/), where Espressif-maintained BSPs make supported development kits easier to use from the first build.

The same approach is just as useful for custom hardware. Creating a BSP for your own board gives your team one place to describe the schematic, reuse initialization code, keep application code cleaner, and move more easily between prototype and production hardware. It also makes the board definition easier to version and share as the hardware evolves.

The challenge is that creating a BSP by hand still takes effort.

## The problem every custom board hits

> You or your software team creates a prototype on **ESP32-S3-BOX-3**, **ESP32-C3-LCDKit**, **M5Stack Tab5**, or another board from [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp). Display, touch, audio, and SD card support work perfectly because Espressif maintains the BSP.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Imagine that you or your software team creates a prototype on **ESP32-S3-BOX-3**, **ESP32-C3-LCDKit**, **M5Stack Tab5**, or another board from [esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp). Display, touch, audio, and SD card support work perfectly because Espressif maintains the BSP.
```

> Then the hardware team designs a custom board with a different touch controller, a different pin mapping, and no speaker. Now you have to start part of the board support work from scratch.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Then the hardware team designs a custom board with a different touch controller, a different pin mapping, and no speaker. Now part of the board support work has to be started  from scratch.
```

> **There is a better workflow.**

Reviewer 2: Placing this short sentence in its own paragraph already creates a dramatic effect. No  need to make it bold on top and drag attention from the heading title that follows immediately after.

```suggestion
There is a better workflow.
```

> ## The BSP Generator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Enter the BSP Generator
```

The result is a board layer that feels familiar to the application, but is customized for your PCB.

## Start with what already works

The generator is designed around reuse: you do not need to describe the whole board from an empty form. Start with the supported board that is closest to your prototype, load its existing BSP configuration, and then adapt it to your schematic. The unchanged parts stay in place; the custom work is focused on the features, drivers, and pin assignments that are different on your PCB.

{{< figure
    src="img/02-load-configuration-modal.webp"
    alt="Load configuration — pick a starter board (ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-C3-LCDKit, …)"
    caption="Load configuration — pick a starter board (ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-C3-LCDKit, …)"
    >}}

To get started:

1. Open the **[ESP-BSP Generator](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools)**.
2. Click **Load configuration** and pick a starter board that matches your prototype (e.g. ESP-BOX-3, ESP32-S3-EYE, ESP32-C3-LCDKit).
3. The form fills in the MCU, features, drivers, and pin assignments - the same structure as the official BSP in [esp-bsp/bsp/](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp/tree/master/bsp).

> {{< figure

Reviewer 2: See [this comment](https://github.com/espressif/developer-portal/pull/743#discussion_r3464258477).

```suggestion
Hover over or tap the **?** icons for hints. Save the JSON - that file is your **single source of truth** for the board definition.

{{< figure
```

    src="img/03-starter-board-loaded.webp"
    alt="Starter board loaded — ESP-BOX-3 configuration ready to customize"
    caption="Starter board loaded — ESP-BOX-3 configuration ready to customize"
    >}}

> Before you touch pins and drivers, take a moment to **make the BSP yours**: update the **BSP name** (it becomes the component folder name and how the board is identified in generated files), the **long description** (copied into the generated `README.md` and, if you enable the SquareLine Studio pack, into the board’s `.slb` metadata), and upload a **board photo** for the README and SquareLine preview image. It is also worth revisiting the **BSP URL** and **HW link** - especially the repository URL if you plan to publish the component to the [ESP Component Registry](https://components.espressif.com/), since that value is written into `idf_component.yml` and used as the canonical reference for your package.

Reviewer 2: Notes and questions

- Since you use bold to single out BSP Generator's form fields, don't use bold for anything else in this paragraph.
- Since these are the instructions for filling out the form, please structure them so that it is easier to follow.
- Can you give more details about the hardware link? Is it a link for the hardware product that the BSP is customized for?
- The screenshot shows not only the board information, but also the features that are covered in a different section. I highly recommend that you split the screenshot and put the features part in "Configure features for your PCB". 

```suggestion
Before you touch pins and drivers, take a moment to make the BSP yours:

- Update **BSP Name** -- It becomes the component folder name and how the board is identified in generated files.
- Update **Long Description** -- The existing configuration's description is copied into the generated `README.md`
  - If you enable the SquareLine Studio pack, the description is also copied into the board’s `.slb` metadata.
- Upload **board photo** for the README
  - If you enable the SquareLine Studio pack, the photo will also be used for the SquareLine preview image.
- Add **HW link**
- Update **BSP URL** - it is written into `idf_component.yml` and used as the canonical reference for your package.
  - If you plan to publish the component to the [ESP Component Registry](https://components.espressif.com/), especially make sure to update it.
```

Author: HW Link should be page with board description (features, pins, schematics, etc..). It is placed in README.md file

Reviewer 2: Then I would add the word page there, maybe `HW page link`?

## Configure features for *your* PCB

Each capability is a **feature tab**: Display, Touch, Buttons, Audio, SD card, Camera, sensors, USB, battery, and more. Enable what your schematic actually has; disable what you removed.

Typical custom-board edits:

| On the dev kit | On your custom board |
|----------------|----------------------|
| 3 navigation buttons | 2 buttons, different GPIOs |
| FT5x06 touch on I2C | Same controller, different I2C pins |
| RGB LCD + backlight PWM | SPI display, fixed backlight |
| On-board microphone | No audio - tab stays off |

The generator checks dependencies (touch over I2C needs I2C enabled, and so on) before it builds anything.

{{< figure
    src="img/04-display-feature-tab.webp"
    alt="Display feature tab — resolution, driver, pins, and LVGL options"
    caption="Display feature tab — resolution, driver, pins, and LVGL options"
    >}}

> Hover over or tap the **?** icons for hints. Save the JSON - that file is your **single source of truth** for the board definition.

Reviewer 2: The screenshots in the previous section already have fields with question marks. So move this guideline above.

I already created a fix in a previous comment.

```suggestion
```

## Generate once, integrate like any esp-bsp component

Click **Generate BSP**. You get a ZIP with:

- A full **ESP-IDF component** (`CMakeLists.txt`, `Kconfig`, headers, sources)
- **`sdkconfig.defaults`** generated to your choices
- **`README.md`** with capabilities and dependency table
- **`API.md`** API reference (Doxygen-style, same idea as official BSPs)
- Optional **noglib** variant (BSP without LVGL)

> - Optional **SquareLine Studio** OBP pack for UI designers

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- (optional) **noglib** variant (BSP without LVGL)
- (optional) **SquareLine Studio** OBP pack for UI designers
```

Your application keeps calling the same BSP entry points:

```c
#include "bsp/esp-bsp.h"

void app_main(void)
{
    bsp_display_start();
    bsp_display_backlight_on();
    // ... your UI / logic unchanged in spirit
}
```

Wire the new component in `main/idf_component.yml`:

```yaml
dependencies:
  my_custom_board:
    path: ../components/my_custom_board
```

Copy `sdkconfig.defaults` to the project root, set the target, and build. **The application structure stays familiar** - only the board layer changed.

> ---

Reviewer 2: Be careful using `---` in your content. These days, it gives an impression that the content was generated using AI.

```suggestion
```

## Swap the component, keep the software

This is the payoff for product teams:

```
Prototype firmware  →  uses esp-box-3 BSP from esp-bsp
Production firmware →  uses my_custom_board BSP from the generator
Application code    →  largely the same #include and BSP APIs

> ```

Reviewer 2: Why use a code block? This is not code.

```suggestion
- Prototype firmware  uses `esp-box-3` BSP from `esp-bsp`
- Production firmware uses `my_custom_board` BSP from the generator
- Application code uses largely the same `#include` and BSP APIs
```

You are not maintaining a fork of esp-bsp forever. You maintain a **small, generated board package** that follows the same conventions as [espressif/esp-bsp](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp): component layout, `bsp_*` helpers, LVGL integration via [esp_lvgl_port](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp/tree/master/components/esp_lvgl_port), and examples you can compare under [esp-bsp/examples/](https://github.com/espressif/esp-bsp/tree/master/examples).

## Your board definition lives in JSON

Every successful run produces a **JSON configuration file** inside the BSP folder (e.g. `my_board/my_board.json`). Treat it as the **single source of truth** for your hardware - not the generated `.c` files.

That JSON is a structured snapshot of everything you configured in the form:

- **Board metadata** - name, MCU, repository URL, HW link, description, photo reference, and generator options (noglib, SquareLine, …)

> - **`BSP_FEATURES`** - which capabilities are enabled and how they are wired: GPIO pins, bus interfaces (I2C, SPI, RGB, …), display and touch drivers, audio codecs, SD card bus width, sensor types, and the rest of the per-feature settings

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **`BSP_FEATURES`** - enabled capabilities and how they are wired: GPIO pins, bus interfaces (I2C, SPI, RGB, …), display and touch drivers, audio codecs, SD card bus width, sensor types, and the rest of the per-feature settings
```

> In other words: the schematic decisions you made in the UI are stored in one portable file. The C sources, `Kconfig`, `sdkconfig.defaults`, `README.md`, and SquareLine pack are **outputs** derived from that file and the current generator templates.

Reviewer 2: > derived from that file

The JSON file?

> **How to use it in practice:**

Reviewer 2: Why use bold here? If you want to attract more attention to it, turn it into a heading.

```suggestion
How to use the JSON file in practice:
```

> - **Version-control it** next to your firmware - commit the JSON when the board definition changes, not every manual tweak in generated sources.

Reviewer 2: > commit the JSON when the board definition changes, not every manual tweak in generated sources.

- If this is automatically generated, why do you need manual tweaks in generated sources?
- And why do you need to commit manual tweaks?

Author: Sometimes, there are specific situations, which are not covered by generator or sometimes there are fixes or workarounds. These situations must be manually updated in code.

Reviewer 2: So manual updates in the code might be required, but the sentence says "commit  ..., not every manual tweak in generated sources."

So the manual tweaks shouldn't be committed? I am not sure what edits to offer because I don't understand exactly what you mean.

Please either update the sentence yourself of give me more clues.

Author: I changed the whole sentence. My yesterday comments is true but not for this part. Sorry for mystification. This part should talk about using JSON file and that you should use it for regenerate after some changes and do not need source files for it.

> - **Reload it anytime** via *Load configuration* on the generator home page, or *Back & change* on the success screen after a generate run.

Reviewer 2: - You use bold for UI element names, right?
- Is `*Back & change*` a button?
- Not clear what `after a generate run` means.

```suggestion
- **Reload it anytime** via **Load configuration** on the generator home page, or *Back & change* on the success screen after a generate run.
```

Author: > * Not clear what `after a generate run` means.

It means, when generating finished.

Reviewer 2: Then change it to `once BSP generation finished`?

- **Share it** with colleagues or across projects so everyone starts from the same board description.
- **Diff it** between PCB spins to see exactly what changed (a new sensor tab, different I2C pins, display driver swap).

You edit the board in JSON (through the form); you do not maintain the BSP by hand.

## ESP-IDF upgraded? Regenerate, don’t rewrite

> The JSON holds *your* board; the generator templates hold *how* a BSP should be built for today’s ESP-IDF and component ecosystem. When the world moves on - a new **ESP-IDF** major version, updated **esp-bsp** patterns, new drivers in the registry, or a feature you skipped on the first PCB spin - you do not merge hundreds of lines across `bsp_*.c` by hand.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The JSON holds *your* board; the generator templates hold *how* a BSP should be built for today’s ESP-IDF and component ecosystem. When the world moves on -- a new **ESP-IDF** major version released, **esp-bsp** patterns updated, new drivers in the registry appear, or you need to add a feature -- you do not need to merge hundreds of lines across `bsp_*.c` by hand.
```

Load your saved JSON, adjust only what actually changed, and click **Generate BSP** again. The tool re-renders the full component from the **current templates**: sources, `Kconfig`, `sdkconfig.defaults`, `API.md`, `README.md`, and optional SquareLine pack. Your pin map and feature choices stay intact; the generated code picks up template fixes and API updates automatically.

> Typical reasons to regenerate:

Reviewer 2: You already mentioned some reasons in `When the world moves on`.

I suggest that you mention the reasons only in one place.

- **ESP-IDF** upgrade or new target support
- **esp-bsp** / driver template changes in the generator
- **PCB spin** - load JSON, tweak pins or features, generate a fresh BSP
- **New optional output** - e.g. enable SquareLine Studio pack on a later run

You refresh the *implementation* from templates - the JSON keeps the *intent*.

{{< figure
    src="img/05-generation-success.webp"
    alt="Generation success - next steps, file list, and Download ZIP"
    caption="Generation success - next steps, file list, and Download ZIP"
    >}}

> The success page walks through integration steps; the in-app **Help** modal covers load/save, features, and SquareLine OBP install paths.

Reviewer 2: > **Help** modal

What is `modal`?

Author: Modal window

> ## SquareLine Studio? Covered.

Reviewer 2: You don't add the final punctuation mark in `ESP-IDF upgraded? Regenerate, don’t rewrite`. Let's skip it here as well.

```suggestion
## SquareLine Studio? Covered
```

[SquareLine Studio](https://squareline.io/) is a visual UI editor for **LVGL** - you design screens, widgets, and animations in a desktop app and export C code into your ESP-IDF project. If your flow includes UI design, enable **Generate SquareLine Studio pack** (Display feature required). The ZIP includes an [Open Board Platform](https://docs.squareline.io/docs/obp/) bundle (`.slb`, `.zip`, `.png`) ready to copy into `~/SquareLine/boards/` — designers stay in SquareLine; firmware stays on the same BSP pins and resolution you defined in the form.

## Try it in five minutes

1. Go to **[bsp-generator.espressif.tools](https://bsp-generator.espressif.tools)**
2. **Load** `ESP-BOX-3` or any starter board close to your hardware
3. Change one GPIO, rename the BSP, and click **Generate**

> 4. Drop the component into a blank ESP-IDF project and `idf.py build`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. Drop the component into a blank ESP-IDF project and run `idf.py build`
```

---
title: ESP-BSP Generator: From Espressif dev kit to your custom board in an afternoon
date: 2026-06-30

> summary: Start from an esp-bsp dev kit, customize pins and features in a web form, and download a production-style BSP component for your custom PCB - same APIs, less manual work.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
title: "ESP-BSP Generator: From Espressif dev kit to your custom board in an afternoon"
date: 2026-06-30
summary: "Start from an esp-bsp dev kit, customize pins and features in a web form, and download a production-style BSP component for your custom PCB - same APIs, less manual work."
```

tags:
  - DevKit
  - BSP
  - ESP-BSP

> authors:

Reviewer: @f-hollow can you please check why the CI is failing on the author check? Maybe an extra space on the line 10?

Reviewer 2: The culprit is the second colon in the YAML parameter `title`.

The values should be put into quotes.
